---
layout: post
title: Life in El Cerrito
summary: I stayed with a family in California for one month.
---

I'm nearing the end of my 4-month internship at a startup in San Francisco, and I wanted to start writing about my experience here.

Renting a place in San Francisco for under $1500 near SoMA is very difficult. You can't do it online (from Canada) since you definitely want to check out the place in person. My mom reached out to her childhood friend living in El Cerrito, and as they rekindled their friendship, her friend agreed to let me stay with her and her family for one week. At least that was the plan.

I couldn't find a place within that time frame, and it was both frustrating and stressful. Luckily, by that time the family had already warmed up to me and said it was alright if I stayed longer. I ended up staying for over a month.

The family had two kids, a girl and a boy, aged 8 and 12.

Their daughter was the most outgoing and energetic little girl I've ever met. She would constantly be dancing, singing, or doing cartwheels. She would always ask me to give her a character to impersonate. When she was happy you could tell, and the same thing was true when she was upset. In short, she was a superstar.

Their son was also outgoing and enthusiastic. We would bike around the street almost everyday. He loved food as much as his father, and he would always ask me to bring him a burger from the city on my way home. Every night he would ask me questions about my day and enjoyed listening to my stories. From offering to make me eggs in the morning, to making sure I wore a helmet -- he was always trying to make sure I was safe and happy.

On my first day there, his mom told me he was autistic. Interacting with someone who has autism causes you to reflect on your own behaviour. I was very lucky to be able to live with someone I could learn so much from. He really opened up my perspective on the way I treat people. He taught me patience. He taught me to appreciate the little things. He taught me how to be a better person.

I look fondly back on the times that their father and I would enjoy a beer on the porch and discuss various topics. He is a very interesting man and taught me so much about music, collectibles, food, and life. He is an excellent communicator; someone who listens very intently and also speaks with passion.

Their mother is really the one that made it all possible. She is a very accomplished designer that shared many stories about the tech industry. I mostly hear/read about the engineering side of things, so having someone to educate me on the design side of things was very valuable. She is so full of life, I still can't wrap my head around the fact that she's around the same age as my mom. She is _so_ cool.

Staying with this family was an amazing experience. They were always making sure I had everything taken care of, they would show me around, and teach me so much about living out here. I quickly started to feel like the big brother. They made my first couple weeks here feel a lot like home. I guess that's what they mean when they say "a home away from home". I can't wait to come back here in a couple years and see how they've all grown and changed.

Things were a lot different once I moved out for the remaining three months of my internship, but I'll save that for another blog post.







