---
layout: post
title: Putting Culture First
summary: Because a ping pong table isn't culture.
---

I use to prioritize my job offers like this: interesting work, salary, location, perks.

Culture wasn't even in the equation.

Now I know that culture is everything. Unfortunately culture is something that has to be experienced, and is worth very little on paper. Salary, location, and perks are all written down and can be quantified, allowing job seekers to judge how good a position is based on these factors.

Some companies try to write something like "work with the brightest, coolest individuals in the industry." That's like saying "my mom is the best mom in the world." It holds very little value for someone reading a job posting, because they don't know those people just like you don't know my mom.

Here's the thing: in the long term, the salary, location, perks, and kind of work stay relatively constant while the culture continues to grow. The biggest thing you'll notice at work is the people because you will be interacting with them more than anything else. You get use to the perks, the kind of work, and the salary - but your relationship with your coworkers continues to change and most likely grow.

Imagine taking a job where the salary is top-notch. You get all the perks in the world, and work is just down the street. But all your coworkers are robots. When you go in to work, no one says hello and when you leave no one says goodbye. No events, no after-hour drinks, no culture. How long do you think you carry on in this position?

Now consider this. Take your best friends and imagine starting a company with them. No perks, the location sucks, and the salary is just enough to get by. Contrast this with the situation above and ask yourself, in the LONG-TERM which position seems better?

Both of those situations are extremes, but are worth thinking about to put culture into perspective. My point is that culture is easily the top thing to look at in a new position, yet job seekers often overlook it because it can't be written down on a piece of paper. So how do we fix this?

I propose the culture fit interview. A lot of startups are already doing this: the relevant team goes out for drinks with a potential hire and discusses everything that isn't related to business.

This is a two-way process: the team gets to decide if the candidate is a good culture fit and the candidate gets to decide if the company is a good culture fit.

Joining a company is a lot like entering a relationship. With relationships, we use the first date to decide whether this other person is worth investing in so much of our time on. The culture fit interview is a first date.

From now on I'm putting culture first.

