---
layout: post
title: Canada vs USA
summary: Major differences I noticed between living in Waterloo & San Francisco
---

h4. Happy hour

From the wine tasting to happy hour, alcohol is really big here. I had never heard of happy hour until going to the states and I was pretty stoked when I realized what it was. For the places I visited, happy hour was from 4-7pm where alcohol is 50% off at participating bars/resturants. Back in Canada, 3 dollar beers were a bargain - in the states I was sometimes able to get a pint for $1.50.

h4. Huge divide between the wealthy and poor

San Francisco has a lot of homeless people. I could find homeless people on almost every corner. Since I lived in the Tenderloin, it was obviously more prevalent. The apartment building I lived in had a large glass wall, so I could see into the alley below us. I saw many crazy things in this alley: people getting beat up, homeless people sleeping together in a makeshift cardboard tent, and the occasional pimp disciplining his prostitute. I also saw some of the hottest drug deals go down, right from the comfort of our living room.

Sometimes I would bike 10 minutes up Van Ness to get to the Marina. The entire atmosphere was completely different. The homeless people would be replaced by beautiful people in fancy resturants. The smell of urine was replaced by the smell of the water. I was shocked by how much an environment can change with just a short bike ride.

I also got a chance to visit some extraordinary houses in Walnut Creek and Lafayette. These places had the best views I've ever seen. Looking out from the balcony, I couldn't help but think about all the people who are living in poverty just down below. It was such a contrast from Canada where the middle class is more common.

h4. Neighbourhoods everywhere

We have neighbourhoods in Canada, but they aren't as emphasised as in the states. When I ask my friends where they live, they usually tell me the major intersection. When I ask the same question in San Francisco, the response would be something along the lines of "lower Pacific Heights" or "Richmond."

h4. Smells

Garbage. piss. ocean water. food. marijuana.

When I biked to work I would get the opportunity to smell three or more of the above all in the same day.

h4. Weather and Scenery

San Francisco is obviously a hub for really smart people. You get "city" atmosphere, yet you drive a couple hours and you can get to see truly beautiful landscapes. I got a chance to check out Lake Tahoe and Muir Woods and it was awesome. The weather was pretty much always nice. It rained 4 times over the 4 months I was here.
