---
layout: post
title: Just Do It
summary: Venting.
---

"Stop being a little bitch" is the vulgar version of Nike's "just do it." For me, it resonates better.

I'm not a morning person. I have a really hard time waking up at 8:30am. However, I'm trying to get into that schedule so I can get my gym session out of the way so I can focus on school throughout the day. Every morning I go through an inner battle with the voice in my head to get up and go to the gym. My inner voice tells me how <i>good</i> it feels to be in bed, and tries to barter just a few more minutes. But then I tell myself to stop being a little bitch and just wake up. And I do.

I've noticed lately I focus too much on my problems and not solutions. The way you think about problems is really relative. My mind is constantly occupied with problems that are so small when compared to what other people around the world are dealing with. Yet, I'm always struggling with them. They're almost always school related, but moreso time related. I want to work on my side projects, but I also want to do well in school. I try not to complain. I need to just do it. I need to focus on a plan to manage the two. So thats what I've been working on.

I've learned that it's almost never about time management, it's more about priority management. If you find yourself running out of time, find out where that time is being spent. If it's not being spent advancing you to reach your goals, then it is probably a waste of time and you need to re-prioritize your tasks. You will never be able to get everything you want to do in a day, but you'll feel less guilty if you stick to a plan. A plan is important.



