---
layout: post
title: Tips for Better Living
summary: A short list of things I started doing that improved my life.
---

h4. Clean while cooking

Unfortunately, I find myself waiting all the time when making a meal. I catch myself waiting for the toaster, rice cooker, oven, or pan to heat up. A lot of people would just stand there. Instead, you can use the time to start cleaning things around the kitchen. Whether it be washing a dish or two, emptying the garbage, or wiping off a counter, I'm sure there is something productive that can be done. Sometimes your food in the pan will be done before other items in the oven or on the stove -- this gives you time to wash those pans and put them back before the other food is ready.

h4. Learn how to fold shirts in under two seconds[1]

My closet has become a lot more organized since I've watched and "learned this technique":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uz6rjbw0ZA0.

h4. Don't learn a magic trick, learn a magic technique

I've got a pretty good sleight of hand. The great thing about learning a _general_ magic technique is that you can apply it in many different ways. A sleight of hand is at the root of so many magic tricks. Magic in general is all about presentation. This means I can use the same gimmick and make it seems like I know one-hundred different tricks when I really only know one technique. All it takes is "redressing" the trick with a different presentation.

h4. Smile at people

Smiling at people is the easiest way to feel good. More often than not, if you smile at someone, they'll smile back. Then there is this moment of a connection with someone you don't know which boosts your mood. Also, make sure to smile with your eyes. If your eyes aren't moving when you smile, then it doesn't look authentic. It's painfully easy to tell the difference. Here is a "great post on the subject":http://blog.bufferapp.com/the-science-of-smiling-a-guide-to-humans-most-powerful-gesture.

h4. Use a queue for focus

When I'm trying to focus on a task, say like studying, I make a memo on my phone and title it "queue". Whenever I have a thought of something I want to do, I write it in the "queue" instead of disrupting what I'm currently doing. In a lot of ways it feels like you're still getting it done, and it allows you to remain focused on the task at hand. It's essentially a list of "things I'm going to do when I'm not doing this."

h4. Memorize a good joke

You'll never know when you'll use a joke, but it comes up every now and then and you want to be prepared. Here's a cheap one: "save an egg, crack a smile." It's not really even a joke, but saying it at some moment may make somebody smile and that's reason enough to know it. Here's a longer one:

bq. 2 men were walking down the street when they saw a dog licking himself. One man said "I wish I could do that." the other man said "you should probably just pet him first."

h4. Go to the gym

This is something you probably already know. If you can't make it to the gym, workout in your own home for just 7 minutes while "following this":http://www.7-min.com/.

h4. Keep your cool

Sometimes people get into arguments, and this is to be expected. Keep it in the back of your head that you're trying to tackle the problem not the person. Control your volume, think about what you want to say, and most importantly _listen_. It helps when you start speaking to say something like "I understand the way you feel, but..." which reinforces that you're trying to find a solution and not attacking the person. Don't let your anger get the best of you.

That's it for now. I'm sure I'll make a part two somewhere along the way.

---

fn1. It usually takes more than two seconds because you have to first setup the shirt in a specific way. Still, the real benefit is you get a neat fold.

